---
title: Prybaby
author: danvisintainer
layout: post
---
Anyone who’s worked on a Ruby project with me knows that I love Pry. I love Pry so much that I wrote another blog post about it. They may also know that I happen to be quite trigger-happy with the breakpoints. Eventually, though, I want to remove the breakpoints and let the app run on its own, but then I’m presented with another (what I find to be) tedious act &#8211; removing all of the breakpoints.

I know there’s something I can invoke that disables Pry at runtime, but sometimes I’d like to send my code to others, and in the end I’d just like to get rid of the breakpoints. I couldn’t find some sort of automated way to do this quickly.

It was at this point I realized that I could accomplish two things here:

  1. Solve one of my problems with Ruby, and
  2. Make my first Ruby gem!

Enter **Prybaby**.

## What even is this

[Prybaby][1] is a Ruby gem that searches your current working directory, including subfolders, for Ruby source code files and comments out any line including `binding.pry`. You can also remove the lines altogether (more on that later), as well as undo your Prybaby run and uncomment the lines back in.

With Prybaby, I can simply run a quick command line instruction to save me having to search multiple files for breakpoints. Just think of the time you can save!

## Installation and Usage

Just run this at your command line to install Prybaby:

<pre class="brush: bash; title: ; notranslate" title="">gem install prybaby
</pre>

To run, simply:

<pre class="brush: bash; title: ; notranslate" title="">prybaby
</pre>

And it’ll do its thing. Note that Prybaby will search the current director, including subfolders, so be sure you’re in your current project folder when you run this, otherwise you may have to wait for a while for it to run its course.

If you would like the breakpoints back in your code and comments removed, do this:

<pre class="brush: bash; title: ; notranslate" title="">prybaby -u
</pre>

Note that this will only uncomment lines with `binding.pry` &#8211; it won’t touch any other commented lines.

You can also have Prybaby *delete* the lines where breakpoints are (whether or not they’re commented). To do this, run Prybaby like so:

<pre class="brush: bash; title: ; notranslate" title="">prybaby -r
</pre>

## But wait, there’s more!

Prybaby will only search for and attempt to modify Ruby source files &#8211; meaning, files ending in `.rb`.

Prybaby is capable with taking into account indented lines, and will place the comment marks in the correct place. Currently, however, your tabs must be made of spaces &#8211; tabs made of `/t` will cause Prybaby to place the hash mark in the first column.

Prybaby will create a temporary file with the modifications on every ruby source it finds, which will replace the temp file when it’s done. This means that if your computer (or Prybaby) crashes mid-run, the source file isn’t affected and the temporary file is kept.

## But wait, it needs more!

Prybaby is still (and may forever be) in its early stages. Its version at this time of writing is 0.0.1, which should give you an idea of that. That said, there are still some improvements that I’d like to get done:

  * Add real, actual Rake tests.
  * Add a verbose mode.
  * Add scanning for `.erb` files as well, maybe.
  * Refactor the code in #comment\_out\_breakpoints, because, I mean, have you seen it?
  * Comment aligning in breakpoints only works when tabs are spaces
  * Better the code so it&#8217;s more in line with the Ruby style guide. Rubocop had quite a bit of fun with Prybaby.

## Pry me a river

I spent much of today coding Prybaby, so over the course of the week I’m going to actually use it to see how much it helps my productivity. Me, I’m just excited about the potential possibility to not have to manually edit out those breakpoints anymore.

[Prybaby on Github][1]

 [1]: https://github.com/danvisintainer/prybaby